Another thing about serverless systems,
real time systems,
is that you should never
really trust local dates.
So, let's say this is an app
that tracks marathon results.
And let's say we created this very
sophisticated system which when I cross
the start time it marks my start, when I
cross the finish line it marks my end.
And let's say that we had a code that
kind of ran like this says, let's update
the David doc, we have his name and let's
write the time that they finished at, and
then I could calculate the time based
upon the start at and end at, right?
Well, what if I set my phone to
start before the race started?
Or maybe what it I set it to, like
just break the world record, and so my
phone could have a different date and time
on it than what my server expects, and so
you can never really trust a local date
because a user's clock can be different.
A user can even to intercept and
try to write malicious dates to you.
So what do we do?
Firestore has a concept
of server timestamps, and
you just import that from
the Firebase library.
And what this does is, this acts as
a placeholder, and it says when I get
up to the server, insert what
the server time is in this spot.
So, we can always be confident
that what dates you see,
what server timestamps are bona fide,
real not spoofed dates.
So, in this case,
when the user crosses the finish line,
I know that that was
the real time that they did.
And another thing with real-time
systems are incrementing values, and
something like just adding plus one
like another, like another view or
something like that is surprisingly
more complicated than you realize.
Because the first thing you need to do
is you have to know what's the state of
the data, okay?
How many likes are there?
Are there seven right now?
Okay, great.
Now, I wanna add to eight likes,
all right, now I want to write to that.
But while I'm doing that,
what if 10 other people liked it?
And so I went from seven to eight but
someone else went from eight or
someone went to nine, and then I
overwrite, and then it goes back to eight.
So, incrementing is very difficult because
so much can happen in a real time system.
So, how do we know that we
can do those writes in order?
Yeah, so how do we know that something
didn't happen during that process?
Well, Firestore provides an increment
function that handles a lot of
the complexity for you.
We'll see at the very end at how you
do these atomic transactions in depth.
But this is a nice convenience method
where you can import decrement or
increment, and you add a number, and
it will actually handle that process for
you, well, actually queue up the proper
ordering rather than running into
any race conditions, But
it's important to that,
especially for increments and
decrements and things like that and
for all Firestore documents, is that
Firestore does have a limit of only
being able to reliably handle one
write per second to a single document.
So, if you have all of these
writes going to a single document,
It will do its best but
at one point it might fail and say, hey,
these needs to happen at a slower pace.
This tends to not be
a problem in many systems and
this also tends to be something why we
use generated IDs, and we distribute
out those updates through a whole list
rather than on one specific document.
But this is something to know if you're
building a very highly real-time system.
Yes.
>> Is there a limit to the number of
paths that we can listen to for updates?
Does Firebase handle that for us, or
is that something that we need to
optimize and manage multiple listeners?
>> You know, I don't think I've been asked
that question in many years or if ever,
that the number of listeners
on paths in your application.
I will need to check that.
I do not believe you are limited to the
number of paths that you can listen to.
You are limited to how far down you
can nest within collection documents
collection, or what can fit into
a document, like a document can only
be up to one megabyte in size, and also
you can put nested objects into those,
and I think that goes to some really
long number that most people don't use.
So you do have limitations on pathing and
storage, but I do not believe you have
any limitations on what you can listen
to and any limitations that we would put
on it as well, you would probably run
into slowdown in the browser beforehand
because the browser would just be doing so
much or just processing so much data.
That's a very good question.
And again, back to it again,
in CRUD systems or
in request response systems, we tend
to say let me fetch data, or I mean,
post data in this case where you create a
new user, and now I have this new user ID.
In Firestore systems, we do not await for
these responses, we just make them, and
we let the cache behind
the system handle it.
So, right here updateDoc and then wait for
the response, updateDoc wait for
the response.
And this keeps all of our UI snappy, we're
not waiting on anything because what's
actually happening behind the scenes here
is that when I call updateDoc with David!,
this callback right here on the second
time, it does not go through the server.
It actually fires off locally before
the server confirms that this write was
allowed.
And this, we call this latency
compensation, there's other fancy terms
for this called optimistic concurrency
control where we basically assume
that it's going to be good and if it's
not good then we can roll back from it.
And so in security rules in
Firestore when you go offline, and
you start making lots of updates, well I
can't verify that any of those updates
work against the server because
I don't have a connection.
So it's going to fire off locally and
the app will continue to work, but
then as soon as the app
regains connections,
all of those pending rights that
are pending to the server go off,
the server sees which ones were allowed,
which ones were denied, and
it will actually write back to the client
and reconcile the state for you.
So, what you might see in an app is if
you had ten rights, and let's say two of
them had bad types, or for some reason
they were rejected, Firestore will
just pluck those two out of the cache and
then your list of ten will go to eight.
So, all those things are handled behind
the scenes and those are cases where in
traditional systems, or
CRUD systems you would be listening, or
you'd be checking to see the results from
the server if there was a problem and
then redoing the state yourself,
you don't do that in Firestore.
It just automatically does the state for
you, and
that's just another example of why you
tend to not listen to the results.
>> Is there a way we got
the synchronization going on,
it kinda happens seamlessly,
we don't know,
the user doesn't know [INAUDIBLE]
it's invisible and that's awesome.
Is there a way to indicate because you
haven't gotten updates in a while to say,
hey, you, you haven't talked to
Firestore in fact, you're kinda offline
that maybe isn't the internet connection
but as a Firestore connection?
>> Yes, absolutely, we are getting
right to that, so we will get here.
Yeah, give me like two slides.
Yeah, that's a great question.
And so yes, we can await from mutation
functions, or I can await for this, but
when I'm offline, this part right here,
it will hang offline.
And so I want my app to continue to
working offline, but it won't if I await.
And that is because I'm opting into
the behavior of saying wait for
the result from the server before
I can continue on this operation.
So if you've ever used like
a Redux system before,
this is like a good way of thinking about
it, with Redux, you dispatch an update.
At no point in Redux do you say let me
add something and then get it back,
you say I want to dispatch
that a user was added and
then that goes through a reducer and
then that gets called through the store.
And so it's this constant flow where
you're never directly manipulating state,
you're always dispatching new
different types of state updates,
and Firebase works the same exact way,
you dispatch updates to Firebase, and
it synchronizes them back across clients.
And what's really powerful here, too, is
that we also have document change types.
So within Snapshots, I told you
there's lots of really useful methods.
There's the doc changes array,
which will tell me you from what I've
started listening what
kind of changes occurred?
There's three types of changes,
I can see documents that were added,
modified or removed.
And whereas when I showed you
the Firestore console, and
we saw it lighting up
like a Christmas tree,
it actually uses this underneath the hood
to say, hey, when something is added,
let me enter it in as green when something
is modified, let me flash it orange and
when it's removed, let me then highlight
it as red and delete it from the DOM.
So, this is really powerful because
it allows us to know what kind of
events happened.
So for any very stateful style apps, you
can indicate what changes are going on.
And this looks like actually a really
complicated bit of code if you don't
like the reduce method, but it's
actually pretty simple what's going on,
is that we're passing on this blank
object of added, modified, and
removed arrays, and so
it's an object of arrays.
And then as we reduce over doc changes, we
can say hey let, me go into the object of
either added, so current.type, is it
added, is it modified, is it removed?
And then let me add that snapshot into it.
And so now, I'll have a whole object of
what has been added, removed or deleted.
And then from there, I can do lots of
really cool stateful things within my app.
So now,
getting into all the questions of offline.
So, when we do offline with Firestore,
we need to opt into that behavior before
we see any of the benefits of it.
And we can do that by importing,
there's actually two offline behaviors,
there's multi tab persistence and
just regular persistence.
When Firestore at first launched, it only
launched with regular persistence and
if you opened up another
tab of that same app,
it would not be able to sync those
changes because syncing real time updates
offline across multiple
tabs is very difficult.
If you actually go to many popular apps,
I'm not sure about Google Docs anymore.
I know for a while if you opened up Google
Docs in two tabs, it would say like, hey,
we can't sync offline changes across
two tabs, we'll only work in one.
It was a pretty difficult
problem to solve, and
eventually we got around to doing
it in a very predictable manner.
And so now we have enabled multi
tab IndexedDB persistence,
where all tabs actually sync across
the same cache across the system.
So, you can see really cool things with
that, whereas if one tab is connected to
the internet, and another tab is not
because you've disabled it with Dev Tools,
it will still write all of your updates
in the offline tab online because it's
syncing to a cache that is
connected to the internet.
So, it is very powerful and a really
cool way of showing real time updates.
So, to your question of how can I tell
users, hey this data might be stale or
hey these rights haven't
happened to the database yet?
That is all in SnapshotMetadata.
So, here in on Snapshot,
the first time it fires,
I'm gonna get my first name of myself and
the very first time I'm going to
see that it's gonna say from cache
is false on the metadata, and
has any pending rights is false because
I got my data, nothing has happened yet.
Now I'm gonna call updateDoc, and
I'm gonna have data David with exclamation
mark and I have new updates that come in.
So, I'll get my new state of data, so
my new name, and then, on the second time,
I will have FromCache is true because this
data has been updated from the cache,
and then hasPendingWrite is
also true because it says,
hey this write is going off to the server.
And so, one way of telling users whether
their data is synchronized with the server
or not is you do it from hasPendingWrite.
FromCache is not as reliable or
is not an indicator, I should say,
of whether it's from the server or not
because certain data can be from the cache
from that document and certain cannot be.
But with hasPendingWrite, you know that
hey, not all the data within this document
has been synchronized with the server yet,
and this is what I use.
So if you were creating like a photos
grid and you wanted photos to upload,
you could make that photo open opacity
0.7 because it has pending writes.
And so it's a really good way of letting
the user know, hey, you're writing data,
but it's not quite saved
on the server yet.